# Sparse Multiple Index Models for High-dimensional Nonparametric Forecasting

Code for the paper titled "Sparse Multiple Index Models for High-dimensional Nonparametric Forecasting".

## Description for files

- [`codes`](codes): Code files to reproduce the results presented in the paper.
  - [`simulation.R`](codes/simulation.R): Code to generate simulation data and perform the simulation experiment.
  - [`heatResults.R`](codes/heatResults.R): Code to fit models and obtain final results for empirical application 1 - Forecasting Daily Mortality.
  - [`solar_HPC_fourier_tune`](codes/solar_HPC_fourier_tune): Scripts to fit multiple SMI models with linear initialisation to select fourier terms in HPC.
  - [`solar_fourier_tune_outputCombine.R`](codes/solar_fourier_tune_outputCombine.R): Code to compare the models fitted using different number of fourier terms to select the best model.
  - [`solar_HPC`](codes/solar_HPC): Scripts to fit final SMI models with the selected number of fourier terms in HPC.
  - [`solarResults_fourier_tune.R`](codes/solarResults_fourier_tune.R): Code to obtain final results for empirical application 2 - Forecasting Daily Solar Intensity.
- [`data`](data): The two data sets used in the empirical applications: [Heat related mortality data](data/Heat_Corrected.rds), and [Solar intensity data](data/solar_data_withFourier.rds).
- [`paper`](paper): Source files for the manuscript.
  - The manuscript is written using [Quarto](https://quarto.org/). The Tex file and the PDF file are generated by rendering the [`smimodel.qmd`](paper/smimodel.qmd) file.
